# 🧊 Staking Overview

Staking is the process of bonding KUJI to a validator in exchange for staking rewards generated from real revenue. Validators can use that bonded KUJI to help secure the chain. Meanwhile, every KUJI staked captures a proportional slice of the revenue generated by the Kujira Network from its many applications. KUJI can be staked to any validator within the [staking tab](https://blue.kujira.app/stake) on [BLUE](../../dapps-and-infrastructure/blue.md).

Delegators or stakers are community members who bond KUJI with a validator (and thus receive staking rewards and help secure the network). They (as well as the validators they stake with) may use their staked KUJI to vote in Governance to shape the network. At the end of the day, user votes always override the votes of validators they have staked with. So if a community member feels strongly about a proposal, they should make sure to exercise their right to vote as a KUJI staker.

Validators vary in various respects such as technical expertise (something correlated with uptime & likelihood of getting slashed), governance values (how they will vote on governance proposals), commission charge (a percentage of delegator staking yield that the validator keeps for themselves often to help fund operations), etc. It is best to do research on who you would like to stake with to get the most out of staking on Kujira. A simpler alternative is to use our [Staking UI](staking-ui.md) and delegate to every validator that is participating in Kujira's [consensus](./#consensus) at once. On Kujira, at the moment, we allow 75 validators to participate in network consensus at the same time.

There are a few central aspects to staking KUJI which **we strongly recommend you read about below before staking any KUJI**. They can be explored in detail via the links below:

### [Redelegate](redelegate.md) (move staked tokens between validators)

### [Unbond](unbond.md) (unstake from a validator)

### [Slashing](slashing.md) (penalizing a validator and its stakers)

### [Staking UI](staking-ui.md) (User Interface promoting network security)
